# st-paul-appeal_1910-04-23

---
## Page 1

VOL. 26. NO. 17.

# CONVICT IS INVENTOR

William Howard Perfects Airship Model in Prison.

Sent to Nebraska Penitentiary for Burglary He Turns His Cell Into a Workshop—Probably Will Be Paroled.

Lincoln, Neb.—From convict No. 4802 to inventor and capitalist, from a narrow little cell in the Nebraska state prison to the head of an airship manufacturing plant in St. Louis is likely for William Howard, an inmate of the penitentiary near Lincoln, under a six-year sentence for burglary.

Howard, since he became an inmate of the penitentiary, has perfected a model of an airship which he is sure will revolutionize air travel. The plans are in St. Louis, and patents are to be procured. He says:

"Howard, of course, is not my real name. That was the name under which I was sentenced, and that it will remain until I am out of prison. I do not wish to give my right name, because it would be distressing to my relatives and friends.

"I was born in Missouri, below St. Louis, nearly forty years ago. Machinery has been my hobby ever since I have been old enough to understand the use of tools. Ten years ago I took up the study of air navigation, and have been working on the problems at intervals since. My plan is similar in some respects to that of Count Zeppelin, but I believe my model is an improvement. It is an airship combining the principle of both the dirigible and aeroplane, but radically different from that of the Zeppelin creation. Instead of being a huge collapsible gas bag for sustaining power, mine will be a rigid aluminum gas cylinder or chamber, large enough, of course, to correspond with the number of passengers to be carried in the basket.

"This gas chamber will contain just enough gas to hold the ship in air. A system of planes will act as the

At Work In His Cell.

motive power and also serve, in case of necessity, to carry the ship upward. The propulsion will not be by direct gasoline power. It will be by electricity generated by a gasoline engine combined with a dynamo.

"Danger of collapse or other accident with my ship will thus be reduced to a minimum. The gas chamber can be made to sustain any weight deemed necessary, but it will be only secondary to the planes for propulsion and weight-carrying power. A chamber 200 feet long will probably carry 25 passengers.

"Count Zeppelin is certainly to be congratulated on his success, but except for my unfortunate arrest I believe I would have beaten him in the inventive race. I think I conceived the idea in advance of him."

Howard's inventive genius has not stopped with his dirigible aeroplane. He is preparing plans for an aeroplane somewhat on the lines of the Wright and Farnam biplanes. A preliminary model has already been prepared. Not much attention was paid to the models at first, but Howard stuck to his work, devoting most of his time to his dirigible, the problem he started to solve long before airships were seriously discussed in this country or Europe.

Howard has been an inmate of the prison since March, 1907, following his conviction for robbing the residence of E. T. Swobe, manager of the National Fidelity Company of Omaha. Before his conviction he invented a cigar-making machine which he sold to the American Tobacco Company for $5,000.

A mail box lock, invented by him had been favorably reported by the government. Locks had played an important part in Howard's troubles and successes. The charge of his picking one and entering the Swobe residence and making away with several hundred dollars' worth of silverware, led to his being sent to prison.

## Canadian Fishing Industry

Canadian Fishing Industry. The catch of fish in Canadian waters by Canadian fishermen, including seals and all fish products, in 1908 was valued at $25,451,085. The industry required a fishing fleet of 14,114 vessels

## RECTS AN ODD TOMBSTONE

"Talked to Death by Friends" Inscribed on Monument Farmer Places at Wife's Grave.

Carlyle, Ill.—"Talked to death by friends" is the rather startling inscription on a tombstone in the Pritchett cemetery, 16 miles northeast of this city.

Persons doubting the story have made special trips to this particular burying ground for the purpose of being convinced.

Whether this woman, Mrs. Alice Phillips was actually talked to death

cannot be proved beyond a doubt, but her husband must have been convinced of the fact.

Thomas Phillip was a farmer and lived in East Fork township many years ago. He had more than the average amount of intelligence and passed much of his time reading the high grade books and magazines of the day.

Many of his neighbors declared he had peculiar ways, and the women seemed to be of the opinion that his wife did not know much about the domestic side of life.

She was advised to do this and to do that.

Her neighbors were all "fond of her"—this they exhibited by their careful solicitation as to everything she did, everything she wore, everywhere she went, and everybody she was seen talking to.

When Mrs. Smith called in the afternoon she never failed to tell Mrs. Phillip how much better that blue gown would have looked if she had only trimmed it in white instead of black; When Mrs. Brown and her husband came over to supper the host was informed how much more delicious the coffee woul' have been if it had been allowed to boll just a speck longer.

Living about in the center of the settlement Mrs. Phillip was the recipient of all the gossip in the neighborhood—and she just had to listen to it all, whether she wanted to or not.

Those were only little milestones in the life which Mrs. Phillip's neighbors led her.

One day she took sick and died from nervous prostration within a short time. Her husband claimed all this volunteer advice had worried her into sickness.

After she was buried he caused the tombstone with the above inscription to be placed at the head of her grave. He is buried beside her.

## Boat Driven by Waves.

There is a boat, of Italian invention, whose motive power is supplied solely by the action of waves. Elastic floats, submerged a short distance, are attached to the stern or bow of the boat. One end of the float is left free to bend up and down with the impulse of the water. The result of the action of the waves is to drive the boat in a direction away from the free end of the floats. The speed is two or three miles an hour. The motion of the boat is independent of the direction of the waves, and can be across or against as well as with the wind. The inventor received his inspiration from his study of the motions of fishes, and he regards the action of the elastic floats as resembling that of a fish's tail.

Famous New York Trees.

In front of Columbia university library are two English yews which were brought from England in 1800 and set out in St. John's park. Later they were removed to the Elgin botanical gardens at Fiftieth street, which were then a part of Columbia. In 1897 the trees were transplanted to Morningside Heights. On the upper part of the island near Spuyten Duyvil stands the largest tulip tree on Manhattan. It has a diameter of 6¼ feet. Near Fordham square in the Bronx is the Stenton willow, said to be 300 years old, and at the foot of Cypress avenue are the two largest cypresses in the country. They stand on land once a part of the Governor Morriss estate—New York Sun.

## Prize for Collectors.

There was recently sold at auction in Berlin the celebrated Lana collection of antiquities and art objects. Probably the most valuable of the relics was a bumper of hammered tin, which brought the top price at the sale, something more than $8,000. This piece has been known by connoisseurs the world over as the "Breslai tin bumper," because it is supposed to have been made in that city. It dates from about the year 1500, and is octagonal in shape, its sides having scenes from the lives of evangelists and other religious figures. It is one of the finest specimens of hammered metal extant—Harper's Weekly.

# THE APPEAL.

ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.. SATURDAY. APRIL 23, 1910.

# HERBERT P. KELLER Republican Candidate for Mayor of St. Paul

## URGES RIGHT LIVING

Mrs. John Vance Cheney Leader in New Movement.

International League of Right Thinking and Right Living Says Happiness Lies in Serving and Helping Others.

Chicago.—It has been said that 150,000,000 persons, aside from those connected with the Christian Science church, are making inquiries or are directly interested in some advanced or New Thought movement. Among the many leaders of Advanced Thought probably no one is better known than Mrs. John Vance Cheney, both through her personal instruction in classes and through her books. A certain minister has said that two books in this line he considers an invaluable aid to his work, "What It Is That Heals," by Mrs. Cheney, and Dr. Worcester's "Religion of Medicine."

Recently Mrs. Cheney has established an educational and philanthropic organization known as the International League of Right Thinking and Right Living, and centers have been started in Montclair, Great Barrington, Binghamton, Toronto, Denver, San Francisco and many other places.

In explaining the role of the league Mrs. Cheney said:

"Our aim is to reach the dead class of workers who never rise above the sordid conditions of daily drudgery. Our method is to re-educate. Legislation or force cannot change or strengthen social or moral conditions, the inspiration must come from within, so we try to begin at the beginning, following the injunction of Solon, Know thyself, and we believe that for the first time in history we have developed a technique of self-knowledge. We turn the attention of members to the fact that mind is the power that has done all things, that the dominion it has gained over the elements and external conditions it can gain over itself.

"We teach that the source of happiness is in serving, in helping others. We believe that the greatest help comes from self-knowledge, self-control, which enables us to be at our best in our contact with the world. As our members gain this self-knowledge they go out as teachers and give what they have learned to others who have had fewer opportunities.

"In the point of health we recognize and use the powers of the mind to control the soundness of the body; where it is necessary we exercise the power of healing, but all our work is simply a training of the individual in self-knowledge.

"It is along the line of the Emmanuel movement, but is more definite in

that we have classes meeting several times a week for drill in our principles. We have a printed lesson and publish a magazine.

"It is a league of women with an associate membership of men. We belong to the general federation and to the city federation.

"Three principles in the technique of self-knowledge must not be omitted:

"1. The discovery that the body responds to every thought and emotion.

"2. The body is transformed in this responsive thought.

"3. From the beginning the definite drill and practice in the technique of right thinking brings about the transformation of a suffering body to a healthy body."

Mrs. Cheney is a magnificent example of her theories.

## Prize for Collectors

There was recently sold at auction in Berlin the celebrated Lana collection of antiquities and art objects. Probably the most valuable of the relics was a bumper of hammered tin, which brought the top price at the sale, something more than $8,000. This piece has been known by connoisseurs the world over as the "Bressau tin bumper," because it is supposed to have been made in that city. It dates from about the year 1500, and is octagonal in shape, its sides having scenes from the lives of evangelists and other religious figures. It is one of the finest specimens of hammered metal extant. -Harper's Weekly.

## Extraordinary Compliment

Extraordinary Compliment.

The governor of a western state was making inspection of certain state institutions when he made inquiry as to the progress of a chaplain by him appointed to an insane asylum. "How is he getting along?" asked the governor, thinking to get an unprejudiced opinion from the official acting as his guide. "Fine!" exclaimed the man. "His preachin' is very successful, governor. The idiots enjoy it especially."

## Over-Hennecked.

Ex-Gov. Pennypacker, discussing at a dinner in Philadelphia the divorce evil, said, with his humorous smile:

Ex-Gov. Pennypacker, discussing at a dinner in Philadelphia the divorce evil, said, with his humorous smile: "Perhaps there would be less divorce if human nature were more perfect. Some women, you know, hepeck their husbands. There is, for example, a Bucks county farmer who said the other day that he would certainly apply for a divorce, only his wife wouldn't let him."

The moment a man's life becomes of service to men it loses all sense of discord.

Before a man can doubt God he has to blind his eyes, close his ears and smother his sympathies.

The hand-mark of God can be found upon the meanest human clay.

The things really worth while never come too late.

The things really worth while never come too late.

A real man must be overestimated in order to get his true proportions.

A real man must be overestimated in order to get his true proportions.

EXHIBIT AN ODD AUTOMOBILE

Vehicle on Two Wheels Latest in Motor Transportation Coming from London.

New York. A most extraordinary two-wheeled automobile, designed on the principle of a "dicycle" bicycle which drew attention in England twenty or more years ago, has been built in London and sent to this country for exhibition.

It consists of a couple of large solid-tired wheels, connected by an axle from which hangs a platform sufficing for the engine, which is at the rear, is of the single-cylinder type, and develops $4\frac{1}{2}$ horsepower. The countershaft lies parallel with the axle of the vehicle, and on the ends are a pair of roller chains driving sprockets that engage with the wheel hubs. The steering is accomplished by an ordinary auto steering wheel, which

The Two-Wheeled Auto.
actuates wires that move friction discs between the sprockets and the wheel hubs, the drive being released from one wheel or the other to effect a turn.
The chief feature of this remarkable type of machine is the cheapness with which it can be built and the lack of vibration that results from the use of large wheels. The seat for the driver and passengers rests just over the axle.

## Old-Time Election Trick

Soldiers have been used to provide artificial majorities in English elections. In 1784, 280 of the guards were sent to vote as householders against Fox in the Westminster election. Upon that occasion the device failed, but it succeeded in an Irish election. The patron of a large Irish borough, finding that there was some uncertainty as to the return of his nominee, marched in a regiment of soldiers from their quarters at Loughrea and had them all elected freemen. Their vote put the victory of his candidate beyond doubt.

Londoners Flock to Work
Between eight and nine every morning 164,000 persons enter the city of London

## LEWIS HAS A HUGE TASK

President of the United Mine Workers Leads 300,000 Men in Coal Strike.

Indianapolis, Ind. — When 300,000 anion men quit work in the bituminous coal mines of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois on April 1, a herculean task fell upon the shoulders of a man in this city.

The man who was forced to take up the great burden had often shouldered others and was prepared for it. Thomas L. Lewis, president of the United Mine Workers, is the leader to whom these 300,000 men look to conduct a campaign that will bring them the advance in pay they demanded. Mr. Lewis succeeded John Mitchell in the presidency when Mr. Mitchell retired

Thomas L. Lewis.

to take up his work with the Civic Federation. The United Mine Workers' organization never has been entirely free of factions, and Lewis, as did Mitchell before him, has had to fight continually against enemies in his own camp. But in the walk-out of April 1, he had practically complete support from his own men and was never better prepared to carry on a fight against the operators.

Mr. Lewis has taken an optimistic view of the situation. In an address to 3,000 miners at Belleville, Ill., the day the strike began he said:

"Don't be alarmed over the outcome of this affair; don't be afraid that we will not be able to sign up an agreement. It will all be over within thirty days. Anyhow, this is good fishing weather."

## FEET NOT EQUAL TO FEAT

Miss Eleanor Sears, Boston Society Girl, Fails in Attempt to Walk 108 Miles.

San Francisco—Even the athletic muscles of Miss Eleanor Sears of Boston were not equal to the task of walking 108 miles from Burlingame to Del Monte in 55 hours. She lost her wager of $200 at Gilroy, Cal., when she gave up the tramp and went to bed after having traveled 66 miles in 20 hours.

Miss Sears is somewhat chagrined at having lost to her friend, Miss Jenile Crocker, and declares that with a little preliminary training she could easily make the trip.

The friends who accompanied her on the walk in comfortable automobiles and on easy running cycles praise her pluck and the spirit which

Miss Eleanor Sears.

kept her on the road until she reeled with dizziness. It was only their emphatic protests that kept her from walking until she dropped.

They declare that her feat of covering 66 miles in 20 hours is remarkable enough for a woman and a sufficient proof of her declaration that Newport men are "mollycoddles" in comparison to the women.

Miss Sears is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R. Sears of Boston and has many athletic honors to her credit. She plays polo better than many men, swims, rides to hounds and runs her own automobile.

## Proud of His Job.

The actor had on his card: "With the —— Moving Picture Company." "It's no come down," he explained. "I am not at all ashamed of my connection with the motion picture," he finished tranquilly. "It's the whole thing, I tell you, these days, and is going to be even more so than it is."

## $2.40 PER YEAR

## Government by Commission Has Given Great Satisfaction.

Mayor Mathis Tells What Has Been Done for the City in Last Two Years — Politics Eliminated.

Des Moines, Ia.—This city on April 1 concluded its first two years under the commission form of government known as the Des Moines plan. The Des Moines plan has been pronounced by municipal experts and magazine writers who have visited the city and have made special studies of conditions as the ideal form of city government. This does not mean that there are not details that could not be improved upon, but in general the observation seems to hold good.

In Des Moines the city council consists of a mayor and four councilmen. These are elected at large. The ward lines were established when the city adopted the new form of government two years ago. The primaries are held two weeks before the city election and two candidates for mayor and eight for councilmen are selected. Two weeks later the people vote again, electing the mayor and four councilmen. The mayor receives a salary of $3,500 a year. Each councilman gets $3,000.

The mayor exercises general supervision over all departments. The councilmen are assigned as follows: One in charge of the department of public safety, which includes police and fire; another is superintendent of accounts and finances; a third is superintendent of streets and public improvements; the fourth is superintendent of parks and public grounds.

The Des Moines plan provides for a referendum of measures important to the people. It also provides the recall, by means of which the voters can, under certain conditions, recall any councilman or the mayor if he does not make good.

The commissioners are selected without reference to politics. Under

Mayor A. T. Mathis.

the first commission, Mayor Mathis was a Democrat, while the four councilmen were Republicans.

Mayor A. T. Mathis has written the following statement of the work of the commission:

"Of all the accomplishments coming as the direct result of the adoption of the Des Moines plan, the greatest is the constant public interest in the work of the council. This is a tangible asset and the basis of all that has been done. This accomplishment should be attributed to the Des Moines plan because it is essentially a system of government with the charm of novelty in its workings. There was previously no public interest save that inspired by property interests and politics. Next in importance is a changed press, which in an improved degree tells what is going on at the city hall. The press and the public lean on each other, and the council is thus inspired. The Des Moines plan is responsible.

"The council has accomplished a great deal as the result of the support on the part of the people and the newspapers. Matters of great public interest are not permitted to lag. There is no disposition on the part of any member of the council to conduct any negotiation with selfish considerations—for the advantage of either himself or others. In other words the members put all matters on a basis of the greatest good to the greatest number. There is attention to matters of all degrees of importance by all city employees, an attention not given when the public and newspapers were less exacting and co-operative.

"Outside of some of the big concrete instances of accomplishments, to me there is no better sign of improvement than the diligence displayed by employees in taking care of multitudinous tasks of routine nature. It was negligence in this respect that brought the old form of government into disrepute, and the correction is the best sign that the new plan is a success.

"The red light district has been abolished.

"A forward step has been taken in simplifying the legal department in its organization and getting away from the bad practice of employing extra lawyers at great expense."

## Gligantic Western Apples.

One of the western states has sent east, as a sample of the agricultural possibilities, 19 apples, each weighing more than a pound.

---
## Page 2

THE APPEAL,
NATIONAL AFRO-AMERICAN NEWSPAPER
PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY
AMS BROS. EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS
49 E. 4th St., St. Paul, Minn.
ST. PAUL OFFICE
No. 236 Union Block, 4th & Cedar.
J. G. ADAMS. Manager
MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE
Guaranty Loan Bldg., Room 1020.
CHICAGO OFFICE
323-3 Dearborn Street. Suite 660.
C. F. ADAMS. Manager

## TERMS. STRICTLY IN ADVANCE:

SINGLE COPY, ONE YEAR.....$2.00
SINGLE COPY, SIX MONTHS.....1.10
SINGLE COPY, THREE MONTHS.....80

only means allowed to run without prepayment are 60 cents for each 13 weeks and 5 cents for each old week, or at the rate of $2.40 per year.

Reminders should be made by Express atony Order, Post Office Money Order, Registered Letter or Bank Draft. Postage as cash for the fractional parts of a dollar. Only 2 cents and two cent stamps taken.

Silver should never be sent through the man. It is almost sure to wear a wole through the hem. If it is almost sure to wear a wole it may be stolen. Persons who wear a wole in order do so at their own risk.

Marriage and death notices 10 lines or less $1. Persons seriously in advance, and not to be announced at all must come in season to be news.

DVD advertising rates, 6 cents per line, each insertion, 12 cents per line, each

Copyright 1909, by Harris & Ewing.

♦ The Republican platform,
adopted at Chicago, explicitly declares
measures without regard to race or color,
just as explicitly declares for the
enforcement, and without reservation
of the right to vote in the third, fourth, and
fifth amendments to the Con-
titution. It is necessary to state
that the state shall maintain a
squarely on that plank in the
platform, and believe that equal
rights will be maintained and impartial enforcement of
these amendments are in keeping
with the reed of fair play—Hon. W. H. Taff's
speech accepting Republica-
nism nomination for Presidency.

SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1510.

The Washington Juvenile Club of Washington, D. C., claims to have been organized "primarily for boys of poor or unfortunate parentage who have heretofore, in many cases, been accustomed to spending their evenings upon the streets or in resorts of questionable character," but if an Afro-American boy were presented for membership the entire board of directors would drop dead.

In their recent literature the promoters boast of the fact the club is composed of boys of American, Irish, Russian, Syrian, Italian, Jewish, Scotch, Bohemian, Austrian, Hungarian, Roumanian, Danish, German, Swiss, Chinese, Spanish, English and French parentage. The scum of the earth is welcomed provided it has no Negro blood.

No Afro-American child is permitted to enter. That is Christian philan-

thropy in the capital of the land of the free.

A COMMENDABLE MOVEMENT.

Mrs. Russell Sage's decision to devote a large part of her great fortune to establishing throughout the country facilities whereby the honest poor man can borrow money in emergency at fair rates of interest marks an undertaking of merit.

So says the Chicago Journal and THE APPEAL cordially endorses the sentiment. Mrs. Sage's millions can in the proposed way relieve thousands of poor people from the grasp of conscienceless extortioners who grind the faces of the poor. The action is in the lin eof many other movements foro the protection of the helpless and

RACE PREJUDICE.

I am convinced myself that there is no more evil thing in this present world than Race Prejudice; none at all. I write deliberately—it is the worst single thing in life now. It justifies and holds together more baseness, cruelty and abomination than any other sort of error in the world. Through its body runs the black blood of coarse lust, suspicion, jealousy and persecution and all the darkest poisons of the human soul.

—. G. Wells in the N. Y. Independent.

of babies to New Orleans, La., where they were eagerly adopted by women there. The managers of the New

## AS YE SOW, SO SHALL YE REAP.

All persons acquainted with race conditions in the South are aware that in that section miscegement has prevailed to a vast extent. Public sentiment made no protest against this condition of things, and, indeed, it was by many Southern thinkers stoutly maintained that it was in reality a benefit, that the sacrifice of the virtue of the black woman was almost an absolute protection of the purity of the white woman. This was regarded as an admirable dispensait shows that the South is still paying the penalty of its violation of the laws of God in slavery days.

## EVIDENCE OF CHRISTIANITY.

The color line has at last reached Oberlin College.

Oberlin was a strong abolition town long before the war, but it has fallen into line with the growing race prejudice. Hereafter no Afro-American student will be accepted on social terms with white students.

All literary clubs, Greek letter societies and debating clubs have also barred the colored student.

American Christianity with its color line continues its triumphal progress.

Recently the New York Foundling and Orphan Asylum shipped a carload

P. M. G. HITCHOCK SAVES $10,000,000.
Deficit in Postoffice Department Will Be Ten Millions Less Than Last Year
—Surplus in Another Year Is Mr. Hitchock's Hopes.

Hon. Frank H. Hitchcock, the pos tmaster general, makes the prediction that the complete returns of the first year of the present administration of his department will show that the pos tmaster deficit has decreased by more than $10,000,000.

In the preceding year this deficit was $17,408,000.

Mr. Hitchcock's prediction is based on the auditor's returns of postal receipts and expenditures for the first half of the current fiscal year and on preliminary returns for the third quarter.

This great reduction is due to the reduction of expenses under Mr. Hitchcock

I am convinced myself that there is no more evil thing in this present world than Race Prejudice; none at all. I write deliberately—it is the worst single thing in life now. It justifies and holds together more baseness, cruelty and abomination than any other sort of error in the world. Through its body runs the black blood of coarse lust, suspicion, jealousy and persecution and all the darkest nolls of the human soul.

of babies to New Orleans, La., where they were eagerly adopted by women there. The managers of the New York asylum have, however, doze the babies an irreparable wrong in sending them to the South, where they will be morally warped and taught the hellish race prejudices which prevail in jimcrowdom.

The entente cordiale existing between the two great powers, the states of Texas and Arkansas has been rudely jested by different estimates of the length of the comet's tail. The Texas scientists estimating it as three feet, while the Arkansas savans are positive that it is not less than five feet. The idea seems not to have occurred to the contending parties that the difference may be caused by the difference of the distance from Hades of Texas and Arkansas.

The Laymen's Missionary Movement is preparing to spend $55,000,000 to be raised annually in converting the 1,000,000 "heathen," all of the colored races, to Christianity. It would be a better plan to spend the $55,000,000 to be raised annually to convert the white heathen in the South.

Pittsburgh has 68 aldermen, of whom 8 have not been convicted of grafting. That reminds us that the newspapers have not, now-a-days, much to say about the dishonesty of the Afro-American. It is for want of space we presume.

## 一. G. Wells in the N. Y. Independent

Michael J. Lange, the Republican candidate for alderman in the Eighth ward, has been a resident of the ward for a quarter of a century and for thirty-six years has been a taxpayer in the city.

He is one of the proprietors of the St. Paul Stone Co. and has been for twelve years. His business takes him all over the ward and city, and

## THE HACKLY RECITAL

The Greatest Musical Feast of the Season.

What was about the sweltest, largest, and most representative audience that ever gathered at a recital in St. Paul, greeted Mme. E, Azalia Hackley, when this distinguished song bird made her first bow at Dyer's Recital Hall Wednesday night.

And there was no one present who did not go away perfectly delighted with the beautiful prima donna and her superb singing.

The local talent, too, came in for a goodly share of the generous applause that followed each number on the program, which was as follows: Baritone solo, "If I Were a Rose," Mr. John H. Hickman, Jr., readig, "Gunga Dean," Miss L. O. Smith, Minneapolis, tenor solo, "Judith," Mr. Claude D. Jackson, who gave as an encore, "I Dream of the Day I Meet You," mandolin solo, selections, Mr. Kenneth Hamilton. Each of these performers was never in better form and richly deserved the applause they received.

Of course, the center of attraction was Mme. Hackley, who made her first appearance in St. Paul and was unknown to a large majority of her audience. But she sang herself into the hearts of all present before she had finished "Je Suis Titania" from the opera of Mignon, and very few there were who would not have gladly sat and listened until morning. Mme. Hackley sang twelve selections and accompanied herself on the piano for the last four. She sang: "A Summer Night," by Goring Thomas; "Una Voce Poco Fa" from The Barber of Seville, by Rossini; "Cuckoo," by Liza Lehmann; "To My First Love," by Loir; "Pluze Mes Yeuux," from Le Cld. by Massenet; "Japanese Cong," by Kyon Thomson; "Song Sorg," by Beibangi; "Unless," by Carrieciolie; "Seoch Folk Song," "When Coming Thro' the Rye" and "Why Adam Sinned," by Alex Rogers. Mme Hackley also made an excellent speech, telling something of her life and travels and of the work she is endeavoring to do for worthy students with the Hackley scholarship, to which she is devoting her earnings during this, her vacation.

Mme Hackley also made an excellent speech, telling something of her life and travels and of the work she is endeavoring to do for worthy students with the Hackley scholarships, to which she is devoting her earnings during this, her vacation.

Mme. Hackley was especially pleasing in the numbers sung in foreign tongues and showed herself to be a highly cultured musician as well as a natural born musical genius, and she took the rare gift to musical tones that has ever been given to St. Paul. Everybody was delighted with her charming personality as well as her masterful vocalizations and she may rest assured of a most cordial welcome at any time she may favor St. Paul with her presence.

Mme. Hackley expressed her delight at the handsome appearance of her audience as well as the feeling that her auditors were en rapport with her.

Especial mention is due for the artistic manner in which Mme. Hackley was accompanied by Mr. F. W. Krieger, which added very much to the effectiveness of the various numbers.

The recital was both an artistic and a financial success.

There were 251 tickets sold at 50 cents each, amounting to $125.50; the hall rent was $15.00; the printing and advertising $21.00; postage $4.50, making a total expenditure of $40.50, leaving a balance clear of $85.00, for which the committee of management holds Mme. Hackley's receipt.

Mme F. Lailah Hackley of Denver held on the Sunday and was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Jose H. Sherwood, 130 West Arch street. She was the recipient of a number of social courtesies during her stay and was highly delighted with St. Paul and the people she met. She left yesterday for the East, taking with her the best wishes of the people who were charmed with her in every way.

The management desires to thank the public for its generous response to its efforts to present Mme. Hackley, and also to state that the names of Mr. and Mrs. Edward Rickman were inadvertently omitted from the list of subscribers.

Mrs. W. B. Elliott & Co., Grocers, 415 University Ave., Phone N. W. Dale 1454. Here you may get the best quality of staple and fancy grocery products, fruits, canisters and confections of kinds, cigars and smoke of articles of school supplies, periodicals, post cards, newspapers ice cream, soda water, milk and cream, in fact almost anything one might call for, and if you call for anything not in stock they will get it for you. Security Red Stamps given with all cash or C. O. D. orders. All orders promptly delivered to any part of the city. Patronage of everybody solicited.

TODAY IS LAST REGISTRATION DAY. IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED YOU CANNOT VOTE.

TODAY IS LAST REGISTRATION DAY. IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED YOU CANNOT VOTE.

he is acquainted with the needs of
be himself. He has made his way in life, start-
ing as a common laborer, and knows
the needs of the laboring man.

He is a man of family and lives at 738 Western avenue.

The voters in the ward will make no mistake in casting their votes for him.

## An Open Letter

Mr. Editor: While in a reminiscent mood, recently, I was reminded that THE APPEAL1 was started in the year 1855 and therefore will pass the 25th milestone of its existence this year.

What a number of interesting events have taken place during these twenty-five years, what wonderful advancements have been made by the Afro-American citizens of the Twin Cities in all lines of life!

And as I was one of its early promoters and know much of its history, I believe it is no small thing for a newspaper to live for a quarter of a century under the circumstances which have surrounded THE APPEAL1 and its success to that some sort of celebration to me that some would be eminently fit and proper, and I also believe that the citizens of the Twin Cities whom you have served so faithfully and well would gladly join in making the event one long to be remembered.

My idea is that a souvenir edition of THE APPEAL1 be published continuing a chronological history of the events that have transpired during its existence, cuts and sketches of prominent men and women, cuts of the beautiful homes that so many have become the happy possessors of, and numerous other matters of interest that would make such an edition a most valuable one for us all. Then as a grand finale a public testimonial celebration in some large hall on the anniversary day of THE APPEAL1's birth or such other day that in your judgment is more suitable, in which all may take a part in making the event one of the largest ever held here.

I would suggest, if the idea meets your approval, that you select a number of persons to act as a committee to carry out such plans as I have advanced or as you may deem most advisable.

Mr. T. H. Lyles:

Replying to your letter above, I beg leave to state that I heartily concur in all you say, and from the expressions which have come to me during the past week I believe that the Quarto-Centennial celebration of THE APEAL can be made a great event if the people will only take hold of it in the right spirit.

The suggestions which you made as to the souvenir edition and grand final public testimonial cannot well be improved upon, but as it will require some time to carry them out properly I cannot, now select a date for the same, but will do so later on, and in the meanwhile will proceed to select a committee, etc., to carry out the admirable suggestions you have made.

Very respectfully.

J. Q. Adams,
Editor.

St. Paul, April 15, 1910.

My Dear Mr. Adams: In relation to the Quarto-Centennial idea, I think it good and you may depend upon me for any assistance I can give. I am, Yours very truly.

Jose H. Sherwood.

"The Rag Doll," the beautiful drama which was to have been presented at Tschida hall Thursday evening, April 14, has had the date changed to Thursday, May 19th. The affair is for the benefit of the Colored Orphanage and Old Folks Home and is under the management of Mrs. Lottie Evans, assisted by Mr. J. H. Charleston. It will be a great affair. Watch and wait for it. There will be twelve prizes consisting of rag dolls more or less beautiful given away. Everybody present has a chance to get a doll. The Hale-McCullough orchestra will furnish music. Tickets 35 cents.

Dr. H. I. Williams, our dentist, has moved his office from the Philipsonpharm building to Room 64 Medical Block, corner of Seventh and Robert streets, over Mansur's Drug Store, where he will be pleased to see all old as well as new patrons.

Where do you get: your laundry work done? Why not give it to the Valet Laundry Co. They do the best work at the lowest prices for good work. They call up Cedar 4362, or call at 154-156 E. Sixth street.

I desire to tender my heartfelt thanks to the friends and neighbors who so kindly gave me their aid and sympathy in my late bereavement of my grandmother, Mary Bradford. May all who showed their kindness never lack for friend sin their hour of need.

Birdie High.

FOR SALE—A six-room modern residence, No. 310 St. Anthony ave. Price, $2,500. Can be handied with a small cash payment and balance on monthly payments or terms to suit purchaser Apply to Anderson & Jones, 430 Wabasha street.

An unescottarian Christian Institution, devoted especially to advanced education and vocational training. English High School courses, with industrial Training. Superior advantages in English. Physical culture for girls. Life and training. Aid given to needy and ill women. Begin the first year of school. Information, address and information. address

# HOWARD UNIVERSITY

The Forty-first Annual Session will begin October 1, 1988, and continue eight months.

HUR YEARS OF BORN COURSE

The New Freedman's Hospital, which adjoins the Medical College, just completed at a campus near the University of California. The Third Session, of the Post-Graduate School and Policlinic will begin May 1999, and continue six weeks for Medical Course and four weeks for Dental Course.
For further information or catalogue, write

# Have You Heard of

MRS. CORA E. BEST, who is doing such wonderful work in restoring HEALTH to suffering women. If you have, you know of the love and esteem in which she is held by the women. If you don't know of Mrs. Best, you had better enquire of your neighbors or friends about her and the Best Combined Treatment. Thousands of women each year are getting acquainted with her, why not you?

THE BEST COMBINED TREATMENT, as originated and manufactured by Mrs. Cora E. Best is saving thousands of forlorn and helpless women from constant suffering, insane asylums or untimely graves. If any disease peculiar to your sex has fastened itself upon you, write at once to your friend, Mrs. Best and she will gladly give you advice.

Do not delay, until it is too late, but address,

MRS. CORA E. BEST,
Minneapolis, Minn.

539 Florida Avenue.

# TUSKEGEE Normal and Industrial Institute

Organised July 4, 1881, by the State Logo
Except State Normal School
Except from taxation.
BOOKER T. WASHINGTON, Principal.
WARREN LOGAN, Treasurer.

## LOCATION

In the Black Belt of Alabama where the
63rd annual football whites three to one.
**ENROLMENT MILITARY**
Enrollment last year 1,235; males 883;
females 371. Average attendance, 1,105.
Instructors, 88.
**COURSE OF STUDY**
Engineering combined with industrial
zipping; 28 instruction.
**VALUE OF PROPERTY**

Property consisting of 2,267 acres of land, 10 buildings almost wholly built with student labor, is valued at $350,000, and no mortgage.

**NEEDS**
$annually required of each student; $0 enables one to finish the course; $0,000 creates permanent scholarship. Students pay their own board in cash and labor; they incur an amount for current expenses and building.

Guides the work done by graduates as class
members. The work done by gradua

*Paskegelbe 40 miles east of Montgomery and
Knoxville, Alabama, on the western Kickapoo
Valley.

degree is a quiet, beautiful old
and is an ideal place for study
is at all times mild and sunny
at the place an excellent

# TILLOTSON COLLEGE

The Oldest and Best School in Texas for Colored Students. Faculty mostly graduated in the north. Reputation unsurpassed. Manual training a part of the regular course. Music a special feature of the school. Special advantages for earnest students

AVERY COLLEGE.
TRADES SCHOOL
ALLEGHENY, PA.
A. Practical, Literary and Industrial
Trades School. For Girls. Unusual advantages for Girls and a separate building. Address.
Joseph D. Mahoney. Principal
Allegeheng, PA.

A Practical, Literary and Industrial
Trades School for Afro-American Boys
and Girls. Unusual advantages for Girls
and a secrete address. Address:
20200 Omaha Mile, Omaha, NE 68103.

# New England CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC

All the advantages of the finest and most completely equipped Conservatory building in the world, the attendant institution, will be associated with the masters in the Profession. are offered students at the New England Conservatory of Music, where the courses can be arranged in Eocleo and Oratory. GEOGRCE W. CHADWICK, Musical Director, Conservatory.

Department:-Normal and College:
Department: Special attention to Vocal
Music: Special attention to Theoretical
Agriculture: Sewing
Healthy Location: heated by
steam, lighted by electricity; room,
board, tuition, light and heat. 850
writing to Presiest Normal Normal
Institute, Petersburg, Va.

Washington, D. C.

## GAMMON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

ATLANTA, GEORGIA
AIMS AND METHODS:
The aim of this school is to do practical work in the process in the ministry. Its course of study is broad and practical; its ideas are high; its work is thorough; its methods are fresh, systematic and simple.
COURSE OF SCHOOL:
The regular course of study occupies three years, and covers the lines of work in several departments of the theological Institute pursued in the leading theological seminary country.
EXPENSES AND AID:
Tuition and room rent are free. The apartments for students are plainly furnished. Good board can be had for seven dollars per month. Buildings heated by steam.

aid from loans without interest, and gifts from the university, deserving students who do their utmost to obtain the gifts, and energy, need be deprived of the gifts, and him in this Seminary. For further particulars address REV. J. W. E. BOVEN D. D. P. Gesamm. Pampion theological Seminary.

# BRAINERD INSTITUTE

CHESTER, S. C.

A normal and industrial school with a graded course of study, designed to give thorough, symmetrical and complete English and use a solid foundation for success and aid in every vocation of life. Board and boarding

Fourteen teachers. Elegant and comm
handled. Climate unsuper-
sured. Departments: Maths, Engli-
paratory Normal, English, Music,
Sportland, Typewriting and Industrial
Training
FIFTY DOLLARS IN ADVANCE. w
with a 2-year light fuel, luf-
tation and incidentals for a
week. Board $6.00 per month; tuition
$2.00 per month; work done
in each department. Send for
to the president.
Rev. Judson S. Hill, D. D.
Morristown, Tenn.

## SCOTIA SEMINARY

This well known school, established for the higher education of girls will open every effort will be made to provide for the comfort, health and thorough expense for board, light fuel, washing for term of eight months. Address.

Rev. D. J. Satterfield, D. D.
Concord, N. C.

KRISTIAN SCHOOL
Able and ability.
Progressive in all departments, best
Methods of Instruction, Health of Students
carefully looked after.
Students must be able to think
as think, for catalogue and other
information, write to the president.

---
## Page 3

A WEEK'S RECORD IN MINNESOTA'S CAPITAL.

The "Saintly City" and Saintly City Folks—Newsy Items of Social, Religious, Political and General Matters Among the People.

SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1510.

Mr. Clede Oliver has returned to the city.

It looks mighty good for the Republicans this spring.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Brown have moved to 438 University avenue.

Go to Hotel Cosby for a nice room or a nice meal, 133-137 E. 9th street.

Mrs. Walter Ball of Grand Forks was in the city this week, the guest of Mrs. J. W. Milton.

Rev. E. G. Jackson, P. E., after a successful quarterly meeting, returned to Chicago Thursday.

Elegant Sunday dinner at GOPHER CAFE, 69% W. Third St., from 11:30 to 3:00 p.m. 35 cents.

TODAY IS LAST REGISTRATION DAY. IF YOU DO NOT REGISTERED YOU CANNOT VOTE.

The Quarto-Centennial celebration of the APPFAL is meeting with the hearty approval of the people.

Funeral Directors and Embalmers.
322 Wabasa St.
Calls Answered Day or Night In
Twin Cities.
Active Pall Bearers Furnished if
Desired.

Mrs. Olive Green of Winnipeg, Can. was in the city a few days, the guest of Mrs. M. L. Terril. She returned home Thursday.

TUESDAY, MAY 3D IS ELECTION DAY. YOU MUST REGISTER TODAY. IF YOU HAVE NOT DONE SO, OR YOU CAN'T VOTE.

Don't fail to see the "Mason Sisters" in a drama at St. James church next Friday night. They initiate a sister proper. See the initiation for 10 cents.

Mrs. James Cox gave a surprise party for her daughter, Lorena, Wednesday evening. Quite a number of the young folks were present and had a good time.

REGISTER TODAY, IF YOU HAVE NOT DONE SO. IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED YOU CAN'T VOTE. TODAY IS THE LAST REGISTRATION DAY.

Watch and wait for the presentation of a beautiful melodrama in four acts, "The Convict's Daughter" by White Rose Temple Dramatic Club at Tschida Hall, Monday evening, April 25th.

The suit for divorce brought by Mrs. Emma Dorsey against Wesley Dorssey was tried last Tuesday, resulting in a decree in favor of Mrs. Dorsey. Mr. W. T. Francis was her attorney.

PATTY'S HERB TEA, 25c.
PATTY'S OBI OINTMENT, 50c.
PATTY'S OBI OIL, 50c.

AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE—If you wish to go automobiling with your friends leave orders at 156 E. Sixth street and you may take a ride in James A. Vass' new Buick car at reasonable rates. Orders by telephone promptly responded to. Tei. Cedar 4362.

Mrs. Rachel Ross, who died at the residence of her daughter, Miss Annie Ross, 442 Olive street, Sunday morning, was buried by Pilgrim Baptist church, of which she had long

## THE DUBLIN INN.

The place to go to
Have your meals.
Each day, or any time

During the week,
Unless it late at night.
Bear in mind, is the Dub-
Lin Inn, 37S Minnesota street.
In fact, there is no place,
Now, just like it

THE STATE SAVINGS BANK.
Fourth and Minnesota Sts., St. Paul,
assures not only absolute safety, but
is an incentive to practice economy
and put away small sums whenever
convenient. Interest compounded Janu-
ary and July each year at 3 1/4% per
annum.
Deposits Over $3,000,000.00
OFFICERS.
Charles P. Noyes. Prest.
Kenneth Clark. Y-Pres.
Lovey Betz. Texas.

# TheGreatShow

# White Rose Dramatic Club

CAST OF CHARACTERS.

Gerald Weston, known as Jerry, the tramp .....Mr. A. C. Kelso
Col. Mathew Lee, a Southern banker .....Mr. A. J. Roberts
James Blackburn, his nephew .....Mr. John Edwards
Jack Worthington, Blackburn's rival .....Dr. Frederick J. Nelson
Mrs. Lee, wife of the Colonel .....Mrs. Florence L. Duckett
France, a disputed possession .....Mrs. Mattie R. Hickins
Sadie, faithful but free .....Mrs. Amelia J. Turner
ACT 1, Scene—Southern estate .....Sadie and Jack
ACT 2, Scene—Drawing room in Col. Lee's Mansicn, Jack and Colonel.
ACT 3, Scene—Jerry's hut—France.

## Mrs. Mattie Hicks, Mgr.

been a member, Wednesday afternoon. Quite a large congregation was present, and there were many pretty floral offerings. The services were conducted by Rev. E. H. McDonald. Lyles' funeral director, interment at Forest cemetery.

The little drama, "Mason Sisters," which is to be presented under the auspices of the Excelsior Club at St. James church on Friday night, is quite amusing. It represents a MASONIC LODGE OF WOMEN, into which a women has managed to be elected, though a number of her sisters do not like her, and the things they do to her when she is initiated would make a sphinx laugh. It is excruciatingly funny. Go and get a good laugh for 10 cents.

Maj. W. C. Handy, the Republican candidate for the assembly, comes before the people for office for the first time, but he is well known from the fact that, for years he was managing editor of the Pioneer Press. He is 50 years old and has lived in St. Paul since 1887. He served as secretary for mayor F. P. Wright. He is a member of the type, able, honest and energetic and you will make no mistake in casting your vote for him.

## WILLAM H. FARNHAM,
Republican Candidate for City Comp
troller

Mr. William H. Farnham in his candidacy for city controller furnishes an instance of a man of high competency, setting aside his personal feelings at the call of a duty that was set before him. Pressure was brought to bear upon him by business men and Republican leaders to file for the nomination which he won by a majority that was astonishing in the case of a man who never before ran for office. He carried every ward in the city and even every prefect except one in which only six votes were cast as to that particular office. He is an auditor and accountant of prominent ability and a man of fine character and reputation in this community, where he has resided for nearly forty years.

Republican Candidate for Municipal Judge. .....

Mr. Lewis L. Drill, who is familiarly known as "Lew" Drill, was formerly catcher for the St. Paul Base Ball team. He, however, now is a practicing attorney-at-law, with offices in the New York Life building. He was born in Minnesota on a farm. He received his education at Hamline University, graduating in 1901, and later from Georgetown college of Law at Washington, D. C., in 1903. He lived in one year in Washington and another in Seattle, then he came to St. Paul, where he has made his home. He has always been a Republican and is a member of the Lincoln and Roosevelt clubs. This is his first venture in politics and he solicits your support.

HUGO O. HANFT
Democratic Candidate for Re-election
for Municipal Judge.
Hon. Hugo O. Hanft. Democratic
candidate for re-election as Judge of
the Municipal Court, stands on the
record he has made during his term
just about to end, and solicits the
support and votes of those citizens
who believe that he has done his duty
fearlessly, faithfully and impartially
during his term.

TODAY IS LAST REGISTRATION
DAY. IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED YOU CANNOT VOTE.

The following taking points will be helpful in convincing those who are not already supporting Mr. Keller: Born in St. Paul. Only Republican assemblyman. On the job all the time. Man of the people. Known for his ability, affability and stability.

Ever alert in the interests of the people.

Republican tried and true.

In addition to the above admirable qualifications, Mr. Keller is just as big and broad intellectually as he is physically, and every vote which you secure for him by your personal efforts will help to increase his majority, add to the success of the entire ticket and reflect credit upon your good judgment.

VOCAL AND PIANO LESSONS given by Mrs. Addie Crawford Minor at her residence 471 W. Central avenue. Hours for instruction arranged rue. to suit patrons. Tel. Dale 2192. Terms reasonable.

Do you read THE APPEAL editorials? If not, do so.

LEWIS L. DRILL

## HERBERT P. KELLER,

Republican Candidate for the Assembly.

F. E. Mahle, who is a candidate on the Republican ticket for the assembly, has been a resident of St. Paul for thirty years and his business career has brought him to be a successful career man. He is the city in the assembly from 1906 to 1908, and his record was a good one. He was always interested in good municipal government.

He is a man of honesty, integrity, business capacity and executive ability and should be elected to the assembly.

Republican Candidate for the Assembly.
John E. Holt, Republican candidate for the assembly, has been a resident of the city for twenty-seven years and a taxpayer for twenty-one years.
He has been in business for eighteen years as a contractor of plumbing and heating, his office is at 149 E. Fifth street and his shop and warehouse are at 689 Jessimine street, and he refers any one to Mr. R. B. Durant. who wishes to know what sort of man he is.
He has been married for twenty years and is interested in the material welfare of the city. Don't fail to vote for him.

## R. B. LETFORD

Republican Candidate for Alderman in Fourth Ward.

R. B. Letford, the Republican candidate for alderman in the Fourth ward, is a successful business man, being proprietor and manager of the St. Paul Mercantile Co.

He is a young man, being only 35 years of age, and has always been a Republican. Two years ago he ran against Huber in the Fourth ward and only lost by a few votes, as Huber stands to the running this time, it stands to the fact that Letford has a fair show for success as he is well and favorably known in the ward.

Be sure to vote for him.

Mr. D. H. Michaud, who comes before the people as a candidate for the assembly, has lived in St. Paul 34 years, and has been in the real estate business 26 years. He is one of the large ing him a proper person to represent the people. Mr. Michaud has declared himself in favor of the same kind of honest, efficient and economical administration of public business. He has moved to his private business. His business training has been a thorough one, and the fact that he is a successful man in his own business is regarded as a strong reason why he should be elected, be sure to vote for him.

TODAY IS LAST REGISTRATION
DAY. IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED YOU CANNOT VOTE.

# GRAND BALL! UNDER THE AUSPICES OF Hiawatha Camp No. 32 K. of F.

See Daily Papers for Prizes Offered for Wrestling and Boxing Matches TICKETS 35 CENTS

Republican Candidate for the Assembly.
Robert H. Seng, Republician candidate for the assembly, is a well-known man. For three terms he was a member of the Board of County Commissioners and made an excellent record. He was also County Assessor for a year and the manager of the branch of the Amuseau Brewing Co. He has always been identified with the Republican party. Cast your vote for him May 3d.

Hon. John W. Finehout, who has served two terms as Judge of the Municipal Court, and made such a good record that the voters at the primaries nominated him for a third term. He now helps support municipal counsel is known by everybody that is anybody and requires no special introduction.

## WHOSE RACE, PRAY?

A Chicago banker compains that "our race is being lowered" through the infuse and assimilation of foreign elements. Whose race. pray? What "our race?" Is it the Chicago bankers race? If so, did the Lord make that banker's race solely for America, or did he make America especially for his race? To whom does America belong, anyhow? It doesn't happen to belong to the Creator an dthe people, who, by their labor, have made it what it is, does it? If it does, then the Chicago banker's race hasn't claims enough to be worth mentioning.—Red Wing Free Press.

## St. James Notes.

"The Lovely Tuesday Evening" is the name of the One More Effort literary which is held at St. James every Tuesday night. Because of the large crowd, the meetings were changed from the house to the assembly rooms of the church and on last Tuesday night, the largest crowd that has ever attended the club liaison program under the charge of Mrs. Beckham will be something of unusual interest next Tuesday night "Mr. S. Edward Hall and his lovers of other years" will be among the special features.

The regular monthly sociable meeting of the Missionary will be entertained by Mrs. Graves next Thursday night. The ladies and their husbands will be in attendance.

THE COSMOPOLITAN MUTUAL CASUALTY CO.

TODAY IS LAST REGISTRATION DAY. IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED YOU CANNOT VOTE.

## Children Teething.

Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup has been used for over fifty years by millions of mothers for their children while teething, with perfect success. It soothes the child, softens the gums, allays all pain, cures wind colic and is the best remedy for diarrhea. Sold by drugists in every part of the country. Be sure and ask for "Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup," and take no other kind. Twenty-five cents a bottle.

Shoes mended while you wait, at Jarvis, 354 Minnesota street. Half soies, 50 and 75 cents. Prices reasonable for all kinds of repairing. He can do it on short notice. Jarvis 354 Minnesota Street

Republican Candidate for the Assembly.
E. G. Rogers, who is one of the Republican candidates for the Assembly, is well known to the voters of the city, he having been one of the wheel horses in the Republican ranks for 60 hours quarter of a century. Everybody knows of Roger. He was county attorney in 1878 and was clerk of courts for 12 years. He solicits your support, which should be given.

Mr. John W. Boerner, who is at present assistant county attorney, is a son of Lieut. Eraest Boerner of Rondo police station. He is a graduate of the St. Paul college of Law and with his partner, R. G. O'Malley, has been in the practice of law for seven years. He has lived in the Eighth ward for a quarter of a century, and has been the head of the organization in his ward for six years.

Mr. W. R. Godette entertained the Profit and Pleasure Club Saturday evening in honor of Mrs. Ollie Green, who is visiting the city. There was were quite a number present, who had a lovely time. Elegant refreshments were served.

Cafe in Connection. Private Dining Rooms

General·Practice of Medicine and Surgery
Hours From 9:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.
ST. PAUL, MINN.

J.M. MORRIS&CO.
UNDERTAKERS
507 FOURTH STREET SO.
Calls Answered Premptly Day or
Night in the Twin Cities.
LADY ASSISTANT WHEN DESIRED
OFFICE PHONE NIC 10144 RESIDENCE SO. 2792
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

UNDERTAKERS
507 FOURTH STREET SO.
Calls Answered Promptly Day or
Night in the Twin Cities.
LADY ASSISTANT WHEN DESIRED
OFFICE PHONE NIC 1014 RESIDENCE SO. 2792
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

Steam Electric
and Hot Water Wiring
Heating A Special
M. J. O'NEIL
ELECTRIC
GAS AND COMBINATION
FIXTURES
PLUMBING

OFFICE HOURS.
9 to 11 a.m. 12 to 1 p.m. 3 to 5 p.m.
Sundays 10 to 11 a.m.
Res. 386 St. Albans, Tel. Dale 918.

PORK AND BEEF PACKER
General Meat Dealers
U. B. Government Inspection of all
Hogs, Cattle and Sheep.
457 and 459 St. Peter St. Both Place

Tel. N. W. Dale 1140-]

## FANCY GROCERIES

Agent for Dr. Lauretzen's Health Table
Malt Tonic. The only pnre
Malt on the Market.

Tel N. W. Main 5830

## Z.B.FIFIELD

AGENT
COAL AND WOOD
FIRE AND ACCIDENT
INSURANCE
Your Order Solicited
OFFICE
205 SCAND. AMR. BANK BLDG
RESIDENCE
239 Aurora Ave. St. Paul. Minn.

PRESCRIPTION
DRUGGIST
sollicits your patronage
Full Line of Drugs, Sundries, Perfumes
and Toilet Articles.
Seventh and St. Peter Streets, St. Paul, Minn.

Specialty — Painless extracting, crown and bridge work

---
## Page 4

Scene in Act I of Martin's "Uncle Tom's Cabin" at the Grand Next Week.

DOINGS IN AND ABOUT THE GREAT "FLOUR CITY."

Matters Social, Religious and General Which Have Happened and are to Happen Among the People of the City.

Mr. R. J. Temple of 609 Lyndale Place is ill at his home suffering with tonsilitis.

Did you attend the State Sunday School Convention held in this city three days last week?

Mrs. Ralph Watson of 3040 Findly Place is out of the city visiting friends in the states of Kansas and Missouri.

Minneapolis Fountain 2779 of True Reformers will hold its regular meetings on second and fourth Friday at their hall in Labor Temple.

The executive board of the State Federation of Women's Clubs met at the residence of Mrs. Mary Smith 3430 21st Ave So., last Thursday.

Mrs. L. A. Lga Rue, of 2913 Harriet avenue, returned last week from Kansas City, Kansas, where she attended the funeral of her father, Mr. Walker.

The Twin City Alliance of Summer societies met at St. Peter's church last Wednesday. The next meeting will be a month later at Bethesda Baptist church.

The Mothers' Effort Club, of which Mrs. Mace'lenn is president, has changed its meeting days from the second and fourth Wednesday to the second and fourth Tuesday of each month.

WHEN IN ST. PAUL, go to the St. Louis Kitchen, 317½ Wabasha St., upstairs, for your meals. All home cooking. All regular meals 25 cents. Breakfast from 7:00 to 11:00 a. m.; dinner from 12:00 m. to 3:00 p. m.; supper from 5:00 to 8:00 Mrs. Julia Hinson, Prop.

Fidelity Court of Calanthe begins its series of Summer Entertainments with a Whist Party Monday evening, May 16th, which will take place at the Lodge Hall, corner Lake street and Lyndale avenue. All are welcome. Come early, enter the prize contest. Light refreshments will be served.

The Minneapolis Forum will meet Sunday, April 24, at 3 p. m. at Bethesda Baptist church. Much interest is being evinced by its followers in the spirited and helpful discussions under the lead of its president, Mr. Osa Lawrence. Splendid programs are given every second and fourth Sunday at St. Peter's and Bethesda churches, alternately.

## ST. PAUL MINN.

The Social and Literary Club of Pilgrim Baptist church will meet at the home of Mr. and Mrs. R. Chapman, 606 St. Anthony avenue, Monday night. Special program.

The Profit and Pleasure Club on last Monday evening entertained in honor of Mrs. Ollie Green at the residence of Mrs. E. De Baptiste. A very pleasant time was had by all.

Ladies you can get just as good "French Dry Cleaning" done by the Valet Tailoring Co., 156 E. Sixth street as anywhere in the city. Why not let them do it for you?

Mrs. W. M. Cannoa now has a class in Hairdressing, Manicuring, Facial, Scalp, Hand and Foot Massage at 566 University avenue. Persons who desire to enter the class should make application at once. Terms reasonable.

THE ST.LOUIS KITCHEN, Mrs. Julia Hinson, proprietor, No. 317 Wabasha, up stairs. Meals 25cts. Breakfast from 7:00 to 11:00 a.m., m. Dinner from 12:00 m. to 8:00 p. m.; Supper from 12:00 m. to 8:00 p. m. All regular meals 25 cts. All home cooking.

The committee, Messrs. J. Q. Adams, W. T. Francis, Allen French, Geo. W. James, Thos. H. Lyles, F. L. McGhee, Thos. R. Joseph, Jose H. Sherwood, Valdo Turner, are delighted with and thank the public for the ready and generous support accorded to the Hackley concert.

Mrs. Marion Roberts, wife of Mr. A. J. Roberts, of this city, is touring the entire South. She is doing excellent work in the "Bauteau Culture" line. Will visit Cuba, and will return to St. Paul about the summer. She reports having taught a beauty school of seventy-six members in Atlanta, Ga.

You have seen the new, novel and beautiful calendars that are embellished with handsome pictures of handsome Afro-Americans? If not, call on Mrs. Mayne G. Williams, Room 27, Union Block, who is agent for them. She has a delayed shipment which will be sold at reduced prices. Get one now before they are all gone.

The new cafe, "The Little Savoy," over the People's Barber Shop, 138 E. Third street, will be open for business tomorrow at dinner. The new place is fitted up in the latest style and is quite elegant in every particular. Mr. Gus Henry is proprietor. All service is in la carte. Prices reasonable. Service first class.

THE VALET TAILORING CO. No. 15-15-16 E. Sixth street. The most up-to-date establishment of its kind in the city. Clothing made to order, sponged, pressed, renovated and repaired. Goods called for and delivered. Four suits pressed for $1. They are prepared to give best service at

lowest rates. Tel. N. W. Cedar, 4362. O. Howell, manager.

The GOPHER CAFE. No. 69½ West Third street, formerly conducted by Mr. Joseph Hanley, has changed hands and Mr. H. Florence fe now proprietor. As before, the cafe will be open all day and all night. There will be a regular dinner served from 11:30 to 2:30 for 25 cents. Meals to order at all hours. Old and new patrons cordially invited.

What was formerly known as the Porters' and Waiters' Club, has changed its name and also its proprietors. Hereafter it will be known as the Porters' and Waiters' Hotel, Pool and Billiard Hall, with cafe in connection. Messrs. Sylvester Oliver and C. D. Pickett, proprietors. Open all night. No. 317 and 319 Wabasha street, upstairs. Tel. Cedar 9001. Old and new patrons welcome.

The funeral of W. R. Gamble, who died at the city hospital Saturday, took place at St. Philip's church Tuesday afternoon under the auspices of I. X. L. Lodge, which turned out in a heady headed by the I. X. L. brass band. The church was field with friends who had come to pay their last tributes of respect. The services tad, rector. The funeral was directed by Lyles, interment at Forest.

The funeral of Mrs. Mary Bradford, who died Saturday at the residence of her granddaughter, Mrs. Birdie High, was held at St. James Church Tuesday afternoon. Rev. H. S. Graves officiating, assisted by Revs. E. H. McDonald and E. G. Jackson, P. E. Mrs. Minor sang "Homeland." There was a large turnout and lots of beautiful token inserts. The funeral by Lyle's, interment at Oakland.

COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP, No. 94 East Fifth street, between Minnesota and Robert streets. First class in every particular. Mahogany partitions, French plate mirrors. Hot and Cold Baths. The only Baths protected by Sanitation Glass. Expert artists in white uniform. Handsome reception and reading room. Ladies need not hesitate to bring children to have work done. Messenger service. Phone N. W. Main 3320J. W. J. Utley & Co. Proprietors.

## UNCLE TOM'S CABIN

The Next Attraction at the Grand Theatre

Al. W. Martin's grand revival of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" comes to the Grand week of April 24. No doubt many who have witnessed minor productions of the play, and have been successfully buncoed by barnstorming aggregations, will be a trifle timid, having formed an idea that because once deceived it must be so always. That would be a poor answer to a question. Because you happened to be a lover of the canvas back, until some incapable chef prepared the bird in an unwholesome manner, should you imagine that you would receive the same at Delmonico's? The theatrical managers and chefs might be classed under the same heading—they serve public fancy and palate, and must be careful scholars of the art if they choose to hold patrons. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" has been "done" in museums at the rate of ten times a day, and on one night stands in an hour and a half by five or six people. Being public property any one who thought they could make a few dollars cut of it, has "produced" the play, and city as well as the country at large has suffered from the infliction. On the other hand it has been brought to a scale of magnificence by Al. W. Martin's has caused press, public and public and public. Taking the place as it was originally, Mr. Martin gives it a dressing of complete and realistic scenery, put the principal roles in the hands of competent actors, engaged a number of Afro-Americans to add to the pictures and sing and dance in the levee scenes—in fuel has done everything to make the performance acceptable to the public. The company which Mr. Martin will bring to our city is said to number fifty people, while the stock and scent is of such quantity that two seventy-foot cars are required for its transportation.

THEO. HAMM BREWING CO.
St Paul, Minn.

## THE KNAPP SHADE ADJUSTERS

Have your old shades rehung by the new meth od, and by which you obtain better ventilation, control the amount of light and secure privacy when desired.

ORDERS LEFT AT THIS OFEICE WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION

122 East Third Street
Finest Brands of Imported and Domestic
Wines, Liquors and Cigars
N. C. CAMPBELL, Prop.
S. E. Cor. Third and Robert ST. PAUL

TEL. CEDAR 1794

DON'T WORRY, JUST HURRY

The DUBLIN INN

ORIGINAL CHOP HOUSE
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT
R. S. HARRIS, PROP.

The man is happiest who finds at home a thoughtful wife, a cordial welcome and a restful, refreshing glass of

"Leads Them All"

BUY YOUR

Carpets, Matting Rugs, Etc., Taken up
Cleaned, Re-laid, Re-fitted, Packed for
Shipment or Stored. A Rugs Made and
Shipment Ware. A SPECIALITY OF
CLEANING FINE IMPORTED AND
DOMESTIC RUGS
Telephones; N. W. Main, 2176

378 MINNESOTA ST.

The mother's health and strength are of vital importance during the nursing period. Digesto Malt Extract is a highly concentrated, pregested food. It has not only the power to digest other foods, but also to create new rich blood, and fatty matter necessary to the formation of strength-giving milk.

Tri-State.1038

ST. PAUL

, PAUL, MINN

EVERY lady can have a beautiful and luxurious head of hair, if she uses this toilet necessity. After a shampoo or dryer, a dryie dries the hair, removing the dandruff and it stays tighten the curled, head of hair, giving it a natural fluffy appearance.

Remember that the Magic never burns or injures the hair, because the comb is essential to the heat. The steel heating bar alone is put into the flame of the heater, as shown below.

Eastern Agents. New York Hair Co. 738 Broadway. N. Y.
MAGIC SHAMPOO DRIER CO. MINNEAPOLIS
MINNESOTA

SAVE $1.00 ON SHOES. One dollar is
the least you save by buying the famous
SOREENSEN $2.50 SHOES
FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Every pair has the Style and Quality
others ask $3.50 and $4.00 for. Large
stock to select from. Shoe repairing at
lowest prices
S. T. SOREENSEN
151-153 E. 7th street St. Paul
324 Nicollet ave. Minneapolis

SAVE $1.00 ON SHOES. One dollar is
the least you save by buying the famous

Every pair has the Style and Quality others ask $3.50 and $4.00 for. Large stock to select from. Shoe repairing at lowest prices

Dimes are little young dollars. They grow only when locked up together. Treat yourself to a savings account and prove it to your own satisfaction. "Planted" dollars will add to your earnings. THE STATE SAVINGS BANK 93 East Fourth Street

# The Most Proper Line of
FALL WOOLENS
TO BE HAD FOR A
NICE SUIT OR OVERCOAT
IS SHOWN BY
Clifford A. Smith

DO not mistake this elegant toilet nectar imitations. It is entirely made you will see by the pictures. It is entirely detached from the steel bar; then after the bar is heated (as shown below) the comb goes turned and the Magic is ready for use.

The Magic Heater is islou suitable for
any indoor space, as cover and
can be carried in hand bag.

## SOCIETY DIRECTOR

MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF
MINNESOTA, A. F. AND A. M.

J. H. SHERWOOD, GRAND MASTER,
C. H. ROBINSON, ARCH ST. St. Paul.
1821 Fifth Ave. S., Minneapolis.

PIONEER LODGE NO. 1, J. F. AND A.
M. Meets first and third Tuesday of each month at 126 East Third street at 8:00 p. m. Walker Williams, W. M.; William England, Secy., 391 Farrington Ave.

PERFECT ASHLAR LODGE NO. 4, F. and A. M. meets first and third Tuesdays at Tschida Hall, cor. Lafond and Thomas streets, at 8:00 p. m. George L. Lodge, W. M.; Joe H. Sherwood, Secy., 130 W. Arch street.

MARS LODGE NO. 2022 G. U. of O. F. meets second and fourth Wednesday nights at Odd Fellows Hall, 221 West University, corner Farrington Hall, N. W. Cor. University, Farrington Mrs. Mamie Durant, M. N. G., Mrs. Ida M. Johnson, W. R., No. 114 Marl St.

PAST GRAND MASTER'S COUNCIL, meets second and fourth Fellows Hall, 221 W. University, corner Farrington. Entrance on Farrington, W. R. Morris, W. G. M.; Thos. R. Hawkman, G. S., No. 422 St. Anthony avenue.

ST. PAUL, PATRIARCHY NO. 114, meets second Monday in each month at Odd Fellows' Hall, 221 W. University, corner Farrington avenue. Thos. R. Hawkman, R. V. P.; W. R. Morris, P. M. V.; Geo. B. Lowe, W. P. R. 178% Wabasha.

MINNESOTA

HOUSEHOLDER LODGE NO. 776 G. U. O. F. meets second and fourth Tuesday in each month at Labor Tem. south, Mrs. Emily Newell and Eighth Ave. South, Mrs. Margaret Williams, W. R.

UNITED BROTHERS OF FRIENDSHIP
NORTH STAR LODGE NO. 138, U. B. F. meets first and third Tuesday in each month at Tschida Hall, Cor. Arundel University and Eighth Ave. South, Mrs. Emily Newell and Eighth Ave. South, Mrs. Margaret Williams, W. R.

John H. Hayes Lodge No. 6, KI or P. meets first and third Tuesdays in each month at Hall, Cor. Arundel University and Eighth Ave. South, Mrs. Margaret Williams, W. R. M. clock P. M. Knights of Pythias in good standing always welcome. O. Howell, W. M. J. Q. Adams, W. Secy. 49 E. Fourth street.

John H. Hayes, C. C., R. W. Gully, K. R. and s. 389 Rondo.

BIDDLE CIRCLE, LADIES OF G. A. R. meets first and third Tuesdays of each month in Supreme Court room, old cap building, Mrs J. Levitzi, Press. Mr J. R. White, Secy., Phoenix Bldg.

FIDELITY COURT OF CALANTHE NO. 345, N. A. S. A. E. A. A. and A. R. meets first and third Tuesdays of each month at K. of P. Hall, 211 Heumann Ave., Minneapolis. Mrs. Minerva E. Barnett, W. C.; Miss Arlene M. Scott, D. of R. 25 W. 29th St.

GOPHER LODGE NO. 105, I. B. P. O. E. of the World, meets second and fourth Thursday in each month at Elks Hall: No. 126 East Third street, St. Paul, Rev. J. R. White, E. R.; R. M. Johnson, secretary, 376 Minnesota.

PLIGRIM BAPTIST CHURCH, 62th and Cedar. Sunday services: Preaching at 11 a. m. and 7:45 p. m. Sunday general prayer meeting: Friday evening general prayer meeting: Friday evening Sunday school lesson. Funeral and weddings promptly attended. Rev. W. D. Carter, Pastor, 582 St. Anthony av.

ST. JAMES A. M. E. CHURCH, Corner and lay street. Sunday services: Early celebration of Holy Easter first and third Sundays, 11:00 a. m. Matins, second and fourth Sundays, 12:30 a. m. Sunday school, 12:30 a. m. Vespers, 7:30 p. m. Week service: Weddings, classification, 8:00 p. m. Holy Easter first and third Sundays, 9:00 a. M. A. R. H. Lealtad, Reporter, 541 Fuller St.