VOL. 26. NO. 17.

# CONVICT IS INVENTOR

William Howard Perfects Airship Model in Prison.

Sent to Nebraska Penitentiary for Burglary He Turns His Cell Into a Workshop—Probably Will Be Paroled.

Lincoln, Neb.—From convict No. 4802 to inventor and capitalist, from a narrow little cell in the Nebraska state prison to the head of an airship manufacturing plant in St. Louis is likely for William Howard, an inmate of the penitentiary near Lincoln, under a six-year sentence for burglary.

Howard, since he became an inmate of the penitentiary, has perfected a model of an airship which he is sure will revolutionize air travel. The plans are in St. Louis, and patents are to be procured. He says:

"Howard, of course, is not my real name. That was the name under which I was sentenced, and that it will remain until I am out of prison. I do not wish to give my right name, because it would be distressing to my relatives and friends.

"I was born in Missouri, below St. Louis, nearly forty years ago. Machinery has been my hobby ever since I have been old enough to understand the use of tools. Ten years ago I took up the study of air navigation, and have been working on the problems at intervals since. My plan is similar in some respects to that of Count Zeppelin, but I believe my model is an improvement. It is an airship combining the principle of both the dirigible and aeroplane, but radically different from that of the Zeppelin creation. Instead of being a huge collapsible gas bag for sustaining power, mine will be a rigid aluminum gas cylinder or chamber, large enough, of course, to correspond with the number of passengers to be carried in the basket.

"This gas chamber will contain just enough gas to hold the ship in air. A system of planes will act as the

At Work In His Cell.

motive power and also serve, in case of necessity, to carry the ship upward. The propulsion will not be by direct gasoline power. It will be by electricity generated by a gasoline engine combined with a dynamo.

"Danger of collapse or other accident with my ship will thus be reduced to a minimum. The gas chamber can be made to sustain any weight deemed necessary, but it will be only secondary to the planes for propulsion and weight-carrying power. A chamber 200 feet long will probably carry 25 passengers.

"Count Zeppelin is certainly to be congratulated on his success, but except for my unfortunate arrest I believe I would have beaten him in the inventive race. I think I conceived the idea in advance of him."

Howard's inventive genius has not stopped with his dirigible aeroplane. He is preparing plans for an aeroplane somewhat on the lines of the Wright and Farnam biplanes. A preliminary model has already been prepared. Not much attention was paid to the models at first, but Howard stuck to his work, devoting most of his time to his dirigible, the problem he started to solve long before airships were seriously discussed in this country or Europe.

Howard has been an inmate of the prison since March, 1907, following his conviction for robbing the residence of E. T. Swobe, manager of the National Fidelity Company of Omaha. Before his conviction he invented a cigar-making machine which he sold to the American Tobacco Company for $5,000.

A mail box lock, invented by him had been favorably reported by the government. Locks had played an important part in Howard's troubles and successes. The charge of his picking one and entering the Swobe residence and making away with several hundred dollars' worth of silverware, led to his being sent to prison.

## Canadian Fishing Industry

Canadian Fishing Industry. The catch of fish in Canadian waters by Canadian fishermen, including seals and all fish products, in 1908 was valued at $25,451,085. The industry required a fishing fleet of 14,114 vessels

## RECTS AN ODD TOMBSTONE

"Talked to Death by Friends" Inscribed on Monument Farmer Places at Wife's Grave.

Carlyle, Ill.—"Talked to death by friends" is the rather startling inscription on a tombstone in the Pritchett cemetery, 16 miles northeast of this city.

Persons doubting the story have made special trips to this particular burying ground for the purpose of being convinced.

Whether this woman, Mrs. Alice Phillips was actually talked to death

cannot be proved beyond a doubt, but her husband must have been convinced of the fact.

Thomas Phillip was a farmer and lived in East Fork township many years ago. He had more than the average amount of intelligence and passed much of his time reading the high grade books and magazines of the day.

Many of his neighbors declared he had peculiar ways, and the women seemed to be of the opinion that his wife did not know much about the domestic side of life.

She was advised to do this and to do that.

Her neighbors were all "fond of her"—this they exhibited by their careful solicitation as to everything she did, everything she wore, everywhere she went, and everybody she was seen talking to.

When Mrs. Smith called in the afternoon she never failed to tell Mrs. Phillip how much better that blue gown would have looked if she had only trimmed it in white instead of black; When Mrs. Brown and her husband came over to supper the host was informed how much more delicious the coffee woul' have been if it had been allowed to boll just a speck longer.

Living about in the center of the settlement Mrs. Phillip was the recipient of all the gossip in the neighborhood—and she just had to listen to it all, whether she wanted to or not.

Those were only little milestones in the life which Mrs. Phillip's neighbors led her.

One day she took sick and died from nervous prostration within a short time. Her husband claimed all this volunteer advice had worried her into sickness.

After she was buried he caused the tombstone with the above inscription to be placed at the head of her grave. He is buried beside her.

## Boat Driven by Waves.

There is a boat, of Italian invention, whose motive power is supplied solely by the action of waves. Elastic floats, submerged a short distance, are attached to the stern or bow of the boat. One end of the float is left free to bend up and down with the impulse of the water. The result of the action of the waves is to drive the boat in a direction away from the free end of the floats. The speed is two or three miles an hour. The motion of the boat is independent of the direction of the waves, and can be across or against as well as with the wind. The inventor received his inspiration from his study of the motions of fishes, and he regards the action of the elastic floats as resembling that of a fish's tail.

Famous New York Trees.

In front of Columbia university library are two English yews which were brought from England in 1800 and set out in St. John's park. Later they were removed to the Elgin botanical gardens at Fiftieth street, which were then a part of Columbia. In 1897 the trees were transplanted to Morningside Heights. On the upper part of the island near Spuyten Duyvil stands the largest tulip tree on Manhattan. It has a diameter of 6¼ feet. Near Fordham square in the Bronx is the Stenton willow, said to be 300 years old, and at the foot of Cypress avenue are the two largest cypresses in the country. They stand on land once a part of the Governor Morriss estate—New York Sun.

## Prize for Collectors.

There was recently sold at auction in Berlin the celebrated Lana collection of antiquities and art objects. Probably the most valuable of the relics was a bumper of hammered tin, which brought the top price at the sale, something more than $8,000. This piece has been known by connoisseurs the world over as the "Breslai tin bumper," because it is supposed to have been made in that city. It dates from about the year 1500, and is octagonal in shape, its sides having scenes from the lives of evangelists and other religious figures. It is one of the finest specimens of hammered metal extant—Harper's Weekly.

# THE APPEAL.

ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.. SATURDAY. APRIL 23, 1910.

# HERBERT P. KELLER Republican Candidate for Mayor of St. Paul

## URGES RIGHT LIVING

Mrs. John Vance Cheney Leader in New Movement.

International League of Right Thinking and Right Living Says Happiness Lies in Serving and Helping Others.

Chicago.—It has been said that 150,000,000 persons, aside from those connected with the Christian Science church, are making inquiries or are directly interested in some advanced or New Thought movement. Among the many leaders of Advanced Thought probably no one is better known than Mrs. John Vance Cheney, both through her personal instruction in classes and through her books. A certain minister has said that two books in this line he considers an invaluable aid to his work, "What It Is That Heals," by Mrs. Cheney, and Dr. Worcester's "Religion of Medicine."

Recently Mrs. Cheney has established an educational and philanthropic organization known as the International League of Right Thinking and Right Living, and centers have been started in Montclair, Great Barrington, Binghamton, Toronto, Denver, San Francisco and many other places.

In explaining the role of the league Mrs. Cheney said:

"Our aim is to reach the dead class of workers who never rise above the sordid conditions of daily drudgery. Our method is to re-educate. Legislation or force cannot change or strengthen social or moral conditions, the inspiration must come from within, so we try to begin at the beginning, following the injunction of Solon, Know thyself, and we believe that for the first time in history we have developed a technique of self-knowledge. We turn the attention of members to the fact that mind is the power that has done all things, that the dominion it has gained over the elements and external conditions it can gain over itself.

"We teach that the source of happiness is in serving, in helping others. We believe that the greatest help comes from self-knowledge, self-control, which enables us to be at our best in our contact with the world. As our members gain this self-knowledge they go out as teachers and give what they have learned to others who have had fewer opportunities.

"In the point of health we recognize and use the powers of the mind to control the soundness of the body; where it is necessary we exercise the power of healing, but all our work is simply a training of the individual in self-knowledge.

"It is along the line of the Emmanuel movement, but is more definite in

that we have classes meeting several times a week for drill in our principles. We have a printed lesson and publish a magazine.

"It is a league of women with an associate membership of men. We belong to the general federation and to the city federation.

"Three principles in the technique of self-knowledge must not be omitted:

"1. The discovery that the body responds to every thought and emotion.

"2. The body is transformed in this responsive thought.

"3. From the beginning the definite drill and practice in the technique of right thinking brings about the transformation of a suffering body to a healthy body."

Mrs. Cheney is a magnificent example of her theories.

## Prize for Collectors

There was recently sold at auction in Berlin the celebrated Lana collection of antiquities and art objects. Probably the most valuable of the relics was a bumper of hammered tin, which brought the top price at the sale, something more than $8,000. This piece has been known by connoisseurs the world over as the "Bressau tin bumper," because it is supposed to have been made in that city. It dates from about the year 1500, and is octagonal in shape, its sides having scenes from the lives of evangelists and other religious figures. It is one of the finest specimens of hammered metal extant. -Harper's Weekly.

## Extraordinary Compliment

Extraordinary Compliment.

The governor of a western state was making inspection of certain state institutions when he made inquiry as to the progress of a chaplain by him appointed to an insane asylum. "How is he getting along?" asked the governor, thinking to get an unprejudiced opinion from the official acting as his guide. "Fine!" exclaimed the man. "His preachin' is very successful, governor. The idiots enjoy it especially."

## Over-Hennecked.

Ex-Gov. Pennypacker, discussing at a dinner in Philadelphia the divorce evil, said, with his humorous smile:

Ex-Gov. Pennypacker, discussing at a dinner in Philadelphia the divorce evil, said, with his humorous smile: "Perhaps there would be less divorce if human nature were more perfect. Some women, you know, hepeck their husbands. There is, for example, a Bucks county farmer who said the other day that he would certainly apply for a divorce, only his wife wouldn't let him."

The moment a man's life becomes of service to men it loses all sense of discord.

Before a man can doubt God he has to blind his eyes, close his ears and smother his sympathies.

The hand-mark of God can be found upon the meanest human clay.

The things really worth while never come too late.

The things really worth while never come too late.

A real man must be overestimated in order to get his true proportions.

A real man must be overestimated in order to get his true proportions.

EXHIBIT AN ODD AUTOMOBILE

Vehicle on Two Wheels Latest in Motor Transportation Coming from London.

New York. A most extraordinary two-wheeled automobile, designed on the principle of a "dicycle" bicycle which drew attention in England twenty or more years ago, has been built in London and sent to this country for exhibition.

It consists of a couple of large solid-tired wheels, connected by an axle from which hangs a platform sufficing for the engine, which is at the rear, is of the single-cylinder type, and develops $4\frac{1}{2}$ horsepower. The countershaft lies parallel with the axle of the vehicle, and on the ends are a pair of roller chains driving sprockets that engage with the wheel hubs. The steering is accomplished by an ordinary auto steering wheel, which

The Two-Wheeled Auto.
actuates wires that move friction discs between the sprockets and the wheel hubs, the drive being released from one wheel or the other to effect a turn.
The chief feature of this remarkable type of machine is the cheapness with which it can be built and the lack of vibration that results from the use of large wheels. The seat for the driver and passengers rests just over the axle.

## Old-Time Election Trick

Soldiers have been used to provide artificial majorities in English elections. In 1784, 280 of the guards were sent to vote as householders against Fox in the Westminster election. Upon that occasion the device failed, but it succeeded in an Irish election. The patron of a large Irish borough, finding that there was some uncertainty as to the return of his nominee, marched in a regiment of soldiers from their quarters at Loughrea and had them all elected freemen. Their vote put the victory of his candidate beyond doubt.

Londoners Flock to Work
Between eight and nine every morning 164,000 persons enter the city of London

## LEWIS HAS A HUGE TASK

President of the United Mine Workers Leads 300,000 Men in Coal Strike.

Indianapolis, Ind. — When 300,000 anion men quit work in the bituminous coal mines of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois on April 1, a herculean task fell upon the shoulders of a man in this city.

The man who was forced to take up the great burden had often shouldered others and was prepared for it. Thomas L. Lewis, president of the United Mine Workers, is the leader to whom these 300,000 men look to conduct a campaign that will bring them the advance in pay they demanded. Mr. Lewis succeeded John Mitchell in the presidency when Mr. Mitchell retired

Thomas L. Lewis.

to take up his work with the Civic Federation. The United Mine Workers' organization never has been entirely free of factions, and Lewis, as did Mitchell before him, has had to fight continually against enemies in his own camp. But in the walk-out of April 1, he had practically complete support from his own men and was never better prepared to carry on a fight against the operators.

Mr. Lewis has taken an optimistic view of the situation. In an address to 3,000 miners at Belleville, Ill., the day the strike began he said:

"Don't be alarmed over the outcome of this affair; don't be afraid that we will not be able to sign up an agreement. It will all be over within thirty days. Anyhow, this is good fishing weather."

## FEET NOT EQUAL TO FEAT

Miss Eleanor Sears, Boston Society Girl, Fails in Attempt to Walk 108 Miles.

San Francisco—Even the athletic muscles of Miss Eleanor Sears of Boston were not equal to the task of walking 108 miles from Burlingame to Del Monte in 55 hours. She lost her wager of $200 at Gilroy, Cal., when she gave up the tramp and went to bed after having traveled 66 miles in 20 hours.

Miss Sears is somewhat chagrined at having lost to her friend, Miss Jenile Crocker, and declares that with a little preliminary training she could easily make the trip.

The friends who accompanied her on the walk in comfortable automobiles and on easy running cycles praise her pluck and the spirit which

Miss Eleanor Sears.

kept her on the road until she reeled with dizziness. It was only their emphatic protests that kept her from walking until she dropped.

They declare that her feat of covering 66 miles in 20 hours is remarkable enough for a woman and a sufficient proof of her declaration that Newport men are "mollycoddles" in comparison to the women.

Miss Sears is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R. Sears of Boston and has many athletic honors to her credit. She plays polo better than many men, swims, rides to hounds and runs her own automobile.

## Proud of His Job.

The actor had on his card: "With the —— Moving Picture Company." "It's no come down," he explained. "I am not at all ashamed of my connection with the motion picture," he finished tranquilly. "It's the whole thing, I tell you, these days, and is going to be even more so than it is."

## $2.40 PER YEAR

## Government by Commission Has Given Great Satisfaction.

Mayor Mathis Tells What Has Been Done for the City in Last Two Years — Politics Eliminated.

Des Moines, Ia.—This city on April 1 concluded its first two years under the commission form of government known as the Des Moines plan. The Des Moines plan has been pronounced by municipal experts and magazine writers who have visited the city and have made special studies of conditions as the ideal form of city government. This does not mean that there are not details that could not be improved upon, but in general the observation seems to hold good.

In Des Moines the city council consists of a mayor and four councilmen. These are elected at large. The ward lines were established when the city adopted the new form of government two years ago. The primaries are held two weeks before the city election and two candidates for mayor and eight for councilmen are selected. Two weeks later the people vote again, electing the mayor and four councilmen. The mayor receives a salary of $3,500 a year. Each councilman gets $3,000.

The mayor exercises general supervision over all departments. The councilmen are assigned as follows: One in charge of the department of public safety, which includes police and fire; another is superintendent of accounts and finances; a third is superintendent of streets and public improvements; the fourth is superintendent of parks and public grounds.

The Des Moines plan provides for a referendum of measures important to the people. It also provides the recall, by means of which the voters can, under certain conditions, recall any councilman or the mayor if he does not make good.

The commissioners are selected without reference to politics. Under

Mayor A. T. Mathis.

the first commission, Mayor Mathis was a Democrat, while the four councilmen were Republicans.

Mayor A. T. Mathis has written the following statement of the work of the commission:

"Of all the accomplishments coming as the direct result of the adoption of the Des Moines plan, the greatest is the constant public interest in the work of the council. This is a tangible asset and the basis of all that has been done. This accomplishment should be attributed to the Des Moines plan because it is essentially a system of government with the charm of novelty in its workings. There was previously no public interest save that inspired by property interests and politics. Next in importance is a changed press, which in an improved degree tells what is going on at the city hall. The press and the public lean on each other, and the council is thus inspired. The Des Moines plan is responsible.

"The council has accomplished a great deal as the result of the support on the part of the people and the newspapers. Matters of great public interest are not permitted to lag. There is no disposition on the part of any member of the council to conduct any negotiation with selfish considerations—for the advantage of either himself or others. In other words the members put all matters on a basis of the greatest good to the greatest number. There is attention to matters of all degrees of importance by all city employees, an attention not given when the public and newspapers were less exacting and co-operative.

"Outside of some of the big concrete instances of accomplishments, to me there is no better sign of improvement than the diligence displayed by employees in taking care of multitudinous tasks of routine nature. It was negligence in this respect that brought the old form of government into disrepute, and the correction is the best sign that the new plan is a success.

"The red light district has been abolished.

"A forward step has been taken in simplifying the legal department in its organization and getting away from the bad practice of employing extra lawyers at great expense."

## Gligantic Western Apples.

One of the western states has sent east, as a sample of the agricultural possibilities, 19 apples, each weighing more than a pound.